The Project Gutenberg eBook of Selections from Aunt Sammy's Radio Recipes
and USDA Favorites, by Science and Education Administration

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Selections from Aunt Sammy's Radio Recipes and USDA Favorites

Author: Science and Education Administration

Release Date: May 18, 2021 [eBook #65379]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SELECTIONS FROM AUNT SAMMY'S RADIO
RECIPES AND USDA FAVORITES ***




                            SELECTIONS FROM
                       AUNT SAMMY’S RADIO RECIPES
                           AND USDA FAVORITES


                UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
                  SCIENCE AND EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION
                    HOME AND GARDEN BULLETIN NO. 215

                                                     Issued August, 1976

                              Prepared by
                 Consumer and Food Economics Institute
                  Science and Education Administration

 For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing
                                 Office
                         Washington, D.C. 20402

                      Stock Number 001-000-03523-1


Aunt Sammy came to life with the first radio broadcast of “Housekeeper’s
Chat” on October 4, 1926. The character of Aunt Sammy—wife of Uncle
Sam—was created by the USDA Bureau of Home Economics and the Radio
Service. Many women across the country played the part as they spoke
into the microphones of local radio stations.

The highlights of Aunt Sammy’s show were the menus and recipes, but Aunt
Sammy also talked about clothing, furniture, appliances, and other
family and household matters. Aunt Sammy wasn’t just a homebody,
however. She commented on world affairs, reported the latest fads, and
told jokes. The talk moved easily from one subject to another, always
natural and entertaining as well as informative.

Aunt Sammy soon became popular. By the end of the first year her program
was carried by 43 radio stations. By 1932, 194 stations were
broadcasting Aunt Sammy’s show. A number of the stations were
broadcasting the show five times a week.

Many listeners wrote for copies of the recipes, and the Bureau of Home
Economics answered these requests with weekly mimeographed sheets. In
1927 the most popular recipes were assembled into a pamphlet. The demand
was so great that it had to be reprinted after only a month. “Aunt
Sammy’s Radio Recipes” was revised and enlarged three times between 1927
and 1931. In 1932 it became the first cookbook published in braille.

Aunt Sammy faded out during the Great Depression. After 1934 the name
Aunt Sammy was no longer used. The radio show became drier and more
factual and was renamed “Homemaker Chats.” In 1946 it was discontinued.

Today, consumers are still looking to USDA for information on how to
make the best use of the food available to them. A research program in
the Consumer and Food Economics Institute of the Science and Education
Administration provides the basis for numerous laboratory-tested
recipes.

Current recipes emphasize time-saving techniques, moneysaving
ingredients, and good nutrition. Taste panels are used to evaluate new
recipes.

    [Illustration: Ruth Van Deman, one of the authors of the original
    “Aunt Sammy’s Radio Recipes.” Fannie Walker Yeatman was the other
    author.]

Research has provided a group of publications for the consumer on
specific foods such as fruits, vegetables, eggs, beef, poultry, cheese,
milk, and soybeans. The series is designed to give information about
buying, storing, and using specific commodities. These and other
publications help consumers use a wide variety of foods to obtain
nutritious, appetizing, and economical meals.

Providing directions for home canning and freezing is another service of
the Consumer and Food Economics Institute. Publications give safe
procedures for preserving fruits, vegetables, meats, and poultry. Many
thousands of these publications have been distributed to consumers, and
the procedures have been widely used by others who make recommendations
to the public about food preservation. Still other publications tell how
to store food properly for maximum quality and safety.

This 50th anniversary recipe collection includes recipes from current
publications and a selection of recipes from the first edition of “Aunt
Sammy’s Radio Recipes.” All of these recipes have been retested in the
laboratory and found acceptable by taste panels.




                      RECIPES FROM THE 1920’s ...




                                 Soups


                          Onion Soup Au Gratin

  3 cups meat broth.
  6 medium-sized onions, chopped.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  4 tablespoons flour.
  2 tablespoons cold water.
  Pepper.
  Toast.
  Parmesan cheese.

Cook the chopped onions in a small amount of water until tender. Add 2
tablespoons of fat from the meat broth or the same quantity of butter
and let the onions cook down in this until they are yellow. Mix them
with the meat broth and salt and thicken with the flour and cold water
which have been blended. Cook for a few minutes. Season with pepper as
desired. Pour the soup into bowls or soup plates, place on top a round
or slice of toasted bread, and sprinkle grated cheese over the bread and
soup. Serve at once.


                          Milk-Vegetable Soups

Milk-vegetable soups are made from cooked vegetables (chopped or sliced)
and milk slightly thickened. The vegetables may be asparagus, peas,
beans of various kinds, celery, potatoes, turnips, carrots, spinach,
onions, corn, cabbage, or almost any other vegetable. Some of these are
good in combination, such as potatoes and onions, potatoes and turnips,
turnips and carrots.

  2 cups milk.
  1 tablespoon flour or less.
  1 tablespoon butter.
  Salt.
  ⅔ cup cooked vegetables, finely chopped, mashed or strained.

Thicken the milk with the flour as for white sauce. Add the other
ingredients. If the vegetable is starchy, use less flour or thin the
soup with milk. The vegetables should be finely chopped, mashed, or
strained, so that they will blend well with the thickened milk.




                              Main Dishes


                             Shepherd’s Pie

Grease a 2-quart baking dish and cover the sides with a thin layer of
seasoned mashed potato. Use about 2½ cups potato. Fill the center with
about 4½ cups well-seasoned, slightly thickened stew, creamed chicken,
or creamed fish. There should be no potatoes in the stew. Cover the top
with 1 cup mashed potato and bake in a hot oven (400°F.) until the pie
is hot through and slightly browned on top.

NOTE: The recipe for Beef Stew on page 13 may be used.


                   Fricasseed Chicken with Dumplings

Cut chicken into pieces for serving. Roll each piece in flour and brown
in hot fat. Browning the chicken before cooking it helps retain and
develop the flavor. After the pieces are browned, simmer until tender in
enough water to cover. When it is done, take the chicken out and cook
dumplings in the gravy. Serve the chicken in the center of a platter
with the dumplings around the edge. Pour the gravy over the chicken.


                               Dumplings

  1 cup flour.
  2½ teaspoons baking powder.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  1 egg.
  ⅓ cup milk.

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together. Beat the egg well, add
the milk, and mix with the dry ingredients. Drop by small spoonfuls into
the chicken gravy. Cover tightly and cook for 15 minutes. The top must
not be removed while the dumplings are cooking. If the steam escapes,
the dumplings will not be light.


                       Baked Cheese and Macaroni

  2 cups macaroni or spaghetti, broken in small pieces.
  4 tablespoons flour.
  4 tablespoons butter.
  2 cups milk.
  ¾ pound American cheese.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  Butter.
  Soft bread crumbs.

Cook the macaroni or spaghetti in 2 quarts of boiling salted water until
tender. Drain. Make a sauce with the flour, butter, milk, and salt.
Grate or cut the cheese into the sauce, reserving a little to grate over
the top of the dish.

Place the macaroni in a buttered baking dish, in alternate layers with
the cheese sauce. Scatter the extra grated cheese over the top with
buttered bread crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) until the sauce
and macaroni are hot through and the crumbs are brown.


                    Smothered Ham with Sweetpotatoes

  1 slice of smoked ham, cut into sizes for serving.
  3 cups raw, sliced sweetpotatoes.
  1 tablespoon butter or ham drippings.
  2 tablespoons sugar.
  1 cup hot water.

Brown the ham lightly on both sides and arrange it to cover the bottom
of a baking dish. Spread the sliced sweetpotatoes over the ham. Sprinkle
with sugar. Add the hot water and fat. Cover the dish and bake slowly at
350°F. (moderate oven) until the ham is tender. Baste the potatoes
occasionally with the liquid. Brown the top well.


                            Creamed Oysters

  1 quart oysters.
  2½ cups milk and oyster liquor.
  ½ cup butter.
  ½ cup flour.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper.
  ¼ teaspoon onion juice, if desired.

Cook the oysters in their liquor until the edges begin to curl. Do not
let them cook too long or they will be tough. Strain off the liquor. To
about 1 cup of this liquor, add enough milk to make 2½ cups. Melt the
butter and add the flour, stirring until blended. Add the liquid. Cook
for 5 or 10 minutes to do away with the starchy flavor of the flour. Add
the oysters and seasoning and serve at once in patty shells or on toast.
If creamed oysters stand, the sauce becomes thin.




                               Vegetables


                             Harvard Beets

  6 medium-sized beets.
  ½ cup sugar.
  ½ tablespoon cornstarch.
  ½ cup vinegar.
  2 tablespoons butter.

Wash beets, cook in boiling water until tender, remove the skins, and
cut the beets into thin slices or cubes. Mix the sugar and cornstarch.
Add the vinegar, and let the sauce boil for 5 minutes, stirring
constantly. Just as the sauce is taken from the fire add the butter.
Pour sauce over beets. Let them stand on the back of the stove for a few
minutes so that the beets may absorb the sweet-sour flavor of the sauce.


                            Baked Cucumbers

  3 good-sized cucumbers.
  ¾ cup fine dry breadcrumbs.
  3 tablespoons butter.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  1½ tablespoons chopped onion.
  1½ teaspoons finely chopped parsley.
  1 tablespoon chopped celery.
  1 cup tomatoes cut in pieces.

Wash cucumbers and cut in half lengthwise. Scoop out as much as possible
of the pulp without breaking the skin. Brown the onion in the fat, add
other ingredients mixed with the cucumber pulp. Stir constantly, and
cook five minutes, or until dry. Place the filling in the cucumber
shells and bake until the shells are soft and the mixture is brown on
top.


                            Browned Parsnips

Scrub parsnips clean, drop into boiling, lightly salted water, and cook
for 15 to 30 minutes or until tender. Drain, scrape off the skin, split
lengthwise, and pull out the stringy cores. Dip the pieces in flour and
fry in fat until golden brown.


                             Corn Fritters

  1 cup liquid, either juice from canned corn or milk, or the two mixed.
  1 cup drained canned corn.
  1¾ cups sifted cake flour
  1 tablespoon melted fat.
  1 egg.
  2 teaspoons baking powder.
  ¾ teaspoon salt.

Mix the flour, baking powder, and salt. Mix the juice from the canned
corn or milk, or whatever liquid is used, the egg after it has been
beaten slightly, and the canned corn. Stir this liquid mixture gradually
into the dry ingredients. Add the melted fat. If the corn is very moist,
even after the liquid has been drained from it, more flour may be
needed.

Fry the corn fritters in deep fat, or if preferred, in a skillet in
shallow fat. In either case, drop the mixture by spoonfuls into the fat
and fry rather slowly. The fritters need time to cook through to the
center before the outside becomes too brown. Drain the fritters on
absorbent paper and serve hot.


                      Scalloped Onions and Peanuts

  6 medium-sized onions.
  ½ cup peanuts, ground.
  1 cup thin white sauce, made with 1 tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon
          butter, and 1 cup milk.

Cook the skinned onions in boiling water until tender. Drain and slice
with a sharp knife. Place the onions in layers in a greased baking dish,
cover each layer with the cream sauce and the peanuts, and continue
until all ingredients are used. Cover the top with buttered crumbs and
bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) until golden brown. Serve from the
baking dish.




                                 Fruits


                         Fried Apples and Bacon

Select about six good tart apples. Peel them. Cut them in 1-inch cubes.
Fry the bacon in a heavy skillet. As soon as the slices of bacon are
crisp, remove and drain them on clean brown paper and keep in a warm
place. Leave about one-fourth cup bacon fat in the skillet and fill it
with apples. Sprinkle on 3 tablespoons of sugar. Apples fried this way
require a little more sugar than ordinary fried apples. Cover the
apples. Cook slowly until tender. Then remove the cover and turn apples
gently, so the pieces will keep their shape. Let them brown lightly.
They are then almost transparent. Place them on a hot platter, and
surround them with the crisp bacon.


                            Scalloped Apples

Pare, core, and slice tart apples, preferably those of a kind that will
hold their shape when cooked. Place a layer of the sliced apples in a
baking dish, sprinkle with sugar, dot with butter, or pour on a little
melted butter. Put in another layer of apples and keep on until the dish
is heaping full. Press the apples down and put in as many as possible.
Cover the dish and cook the apples slowly for 1 to 1½ hours in a 300°F.
(slow) oven. Fifteen minutes before the apples are to be served, remove
the cover and spread buttered bread crumbs over the top. Return to the
oven and let the crumbs become golden brown and crisp. The apples
themselves will be in whole pieces and almost transparent. Some kinds
will be pink in color. Scalloped apples are good served hot with main
course of dinner or supper.




                                 Salads


                        Cabbage and Carrot Salad

Use equal parts of grated carrots and finely shredded cabbage. Mix the
carrots and cabbage together with salad dressing until well blended.
Serve on crisp lettuce.


                             Stuffed Celery

Cut the celery into pieces convenient for handling. Fill the hollow of
the celery stalks with cream cheese mixed with chopped pimiento, green
pepper, and chopped nuts. Serve on the plate with another salad or as a
relish.


                              Potato Salad

  4 medium-sized potatoes.
  1 cup finely cut celery.
  1½ teaspoons salt.
  1 teaspoon grated onion or more.
  ¼ cup chopped pickle.
  1 cup salad dressing.

Cook the potatoes in their jackets in boiling salted water. As soon as
the potatoes are tender, but not soft, drain them and remove the skins.
When they are cold, cut the potatoes in small uniform cubes. Add the
celery, onion, pickle, salt, and salad dressing. Mix together lightly to
avoid breaking the potatoes and making them mushy. Chill thoroughly and
serve on crisp lettuce leaves.


                           Tomato Aspic Salad

  2 envelopes gelatin.
  1 quart canned tomatoes.
  1 tablespoon finely chopped green pepper.
  2 tablespoons finely chopped celery.
  1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley.
  1 cup very finely shredded cabbage.
  1½ teaspoons salt.
  ½ teaspoon onion juice.
  ½ teaspoon sugar.

Soak the gelatin in a small quantity of water. Boil the tomatoes for 5
minutes and strain through a fine sieve to remove the seeds. Pour the
hot tomato juice over the gelatin and stir until it is dissolved. Add
the salt, onion juice, and the sugar and chill. When the gelatin mixture
is partly set, add the finely shredded vegetables and mix well. Add more
salt if needed. Pour into wet custard cups and place in the cold until
set. Turn these molds out on crisp lettuce leaves and serve with
mayonnaise.




                                 Breads


                           Boston Brown Bread

  1 cup corn meal.
  1 cup rye meal.
  1 cup whole wheat flour.
  1 teaspoon salt.
  ¾ cup molasses.
  2 cups sour milk and 1½ teaspoons soda, or 1¾ cups sweet milk and 4
          teaspoons baking powder.

Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add the molasses and the milk. Beat
the mixture thoroughly. Pour the batter into a greased tin can or mold
until it is about three-fourths full. Cover, and steam for 3½ hours.
Remove the cover, and bake the bread in a moderate oven for ½ hour to
dry it off. If the bread seems likely to crumble, loop a clean string
around the loaf and cut slices by pulling the ends of the string.


                             Cheese Straws

  1 cup flour.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ¼ cup fat.
  1 cup grated cheese.
  ¹/₁₆ teaspoon cayenne.
  3 tablespoons water.

Cut the flour, salt, cayenne, fat, and one-half of the cheese together
with a biscuit cutter until the mass is well blended. Add the water and
mix well. Toss on a slightly floured board and roll 2 or 3 times until
the dough is smooth. Sprinkle on one half of the remainder of the cheese
and roll again. Repeat this until all the cheese is used. Roll the mass
out until about ¼ inch thick. Cut in strips ½ inch wide and 6 inches
long. Place the strips on a baking sheet and bake until a delicate
brown, in a hot oven, about 400°F.


                                Waffles

  1½ cups milk.
  2 cups sifted cake flour.
  3 tablespoons fat.
  2 eggs.
  3 teaspoons baking powder.
  1½ tablespoons sugar.
  ¾ teaspoon salt.

Mix the dry ingredients, add the milk and egg yolks, then the melted
fat, and lastly fold in the beaten whites of eggs. Have the waffle iron
hot enough to brown the waffle quickly and well greased unless it is the
electrically heated aluminum kind. In that case, add an extra tablespoon
of melted shortening to the batter.




                                Desserts


                           Chocolate Souffle

  ½ cup sugar.
  ½ cup fine dry bread crumbs.
  1 tablespoon flour.
  1 tablespoon butter.
  1½ squares unsweetened chocolate.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ¾ cup milk.
  4 eggs.
  ½ teaspoon vanilla.

Mix the flour and butter, add the milk, and stir over heat until
thickened. Melt the chocolate over steam, and add to the cream sauce,
with the salt, bread crumbs, sugar, vanilla, and well beaten egg yolks.
Beat well. Fold in the well beaten whites of the eggs. Pour into a
greased 1½ quart pudding dish and bake in a slow oven (325°F.) for 1
hour, or until well set in the middle. Serve hot with the hard sauce
(page 9).


                               Hard Sauce

  ¼ cup butter.
  ¾ cup powdered sugar.
  ½ teaspoon vanilla.
  ⅛ teaspoon grated nutmeg.

Cream together the butter and sugar, add the vanilla and nutmeg. The
secret of creamy hard sauce lies in long beating. Chill before serving.


                                 Rocks

  1½ cups light brown sugar.
  1 cup butter.
  3 eggs, well beaten.
  ½ teaspoon soda in a little hot water.
  1 teaspoon cinnamon.
  3 cups raisins, chopped.
  1 cup English walnut meats, chopped.
  2¾ cups flour.
  ½ teaspoon salt.

Cream the butter and sugar and add the eggs. Sift the dry ingredients,
reserving some flour to roll the raisins and nuts. Mix all together.
Place by teaspoonfuls on a greased pan and bake in a hot oven (375°F.).


                         Baked Caramel Custard

  1 quart milk.
  5 eggs.
  ½ cup sugar.
  ½ teaspoon vanilla.
  ¼ cup caramel sirup.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.
  Butter.

Heat the milk slightly with the sugar, salt, and caramel sirup. Be sure
the caramel sirup is entirely dissolved before this mixture is poured
into the lightly beaten eggs. Add the vanilla. Pour the mixture into
custard cups, and add a small piece of butter to each. Bake in a pan
surrounded by water in a slow oven (325°F.). Test by placing the point
of a knife in the center of the custard and if it comes out clean remove
the cups of custard at once from the hot water. The custards may be
served either hot or cold with caramel sirup if more caramel flavor is
desired.

Sugar can be caramelized easily by placing it in a heavy skillet over
slow even heat, and stirring it constantly until it melts and becomes a
heavy brown sirup. As soon as it reaches this stage take it from the
fire at once, and use it for flavoring and sweetening the custard.


                            Apple Dumplings

Roll the pastry in a thin sheet and cut it in rounds. Place a whole,
cored apple in center of each round of pastry.

Sprinkle sugar over the apple, dot with butter, and bring the edges of
the pastry together over the apple. Bake in muffin pans, in a moderate
oven (350°F.) until apple is tender, about 1 hour. Serve hot with hard
sauce (page 9).


                             Sour Cream Pie

  1 cup sour cream.
  1 cup sugar.
  1 cup seeded raisins, cut fine.
  2 eggs.
  ½ teaspoon powdered cinnamon.
  ½ teaspoon powdered cloves.
  ⅛ teaspoon salt.
  2 tablespoons vinegar.

Beat the eggs. Mix the spices with the sugar, and add to the eggs with
the raisins, cream, salt, and vinegar. Beat well. Pour the mixture into
a deep, pastry-lined pie pan. Moisten the outer rim of the pastry, and
press the top crust over the lower one to hold in the custard. Bake in a
moderate oven (350°F.) until golden brown.


                              Date Pudding

  1½ cups pitted dates.
  ½ cup milk.
  1 cup chopped nuts.
  1 cup sugar.
  3 eggs.
  1 cup flour.
  2 tablespoons butter.
  1 teaspoon vanilla.
  1 teaspoon baking powder.
  ¼ teaspoon salt.

Mix the butter and sugar and add the beaten eggs and milk. Sift the dry
ingredients and add them to the liquid mixture, reserving enough flour
to coat the dates and nuts. Add them and the vanilla. Bake in a shallow
greased pan in a very slow oven (250°F.) for 1 hour 45 minutes, until
set in the center. Cut in squares and serve with whipped cream.


                              Pumpkin Pie

  1½ cups cooked pumpkin.
  1 cup milk.
  ½ cup sugar.
  1 teaspoon cinnamon.
  ½ teaspoon salt.
  ½ teaspoon allspice.
  ¼ teaspoon mace.
  2 eggs.
  1 tablespoon butter.

Put all the ingredients, except the eggs and the butter, in the double
boiler. Bring to the scalding point. Beat eggs well; stir a small amount
of hot mixture into the eggs; stir egg mixture into the remaining hot
mixture. Stir until it starts to thicken. Add the butter. Line a pie pan
with pastry and bake until light brown. Pour the hot filling into a
baked crust. Bake the pie in a moderately hot oven (400°F.) until the
filling sets.


                            Applesauce Cake

  1 cup sugar.
  ½ cup fat.
  1 cup applesauce, unsweetened.
  1 cup raisins, chopped.
  2 tablespoons flour.
  ½ teaspoon cloves.
  ½ teaspoon cinnamon.
  ¼ teaspoon nutmeg.
  2½ cups sifted cake flour.
  1 teaspoon soda mixed with 2 tablespoons water.
  ½ teaspoon salt.

Cream the sugar and fat, add the applesauce and the soda which has been
dissolved in the water. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add them,
with the floured raisins, to the first mixture. Beat well, pour into a
greased pan, and bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) for about 35 minutes.




                         RECIPES FROM 1976 ...




                              Main Dishes


                             Baked soybeans

_6 servings, about ⅔ cup each_

 Soybeans, dry                              2 cups
 Boiling water                              6 cups
 Salt                                       1 teaspoon
 Bacon, diced                               ¼ pound
 Onion, chopped                             ½ cup
 Brown sugar, packed                        ¼ cup
 Salt                                       1½ teaspoons
 Dry mustard                                1 teaspoon
 Bean cooking liquid and water              ¾ cup
 Light molasses                             ¼ cup

Boil beans for 2 minutes in water. Let stand 1 hour. Add salt. Cook 2 to
3 hours or until tender. Drain; save liquid.

_Preheat oven to 325°F. (slow)._

Place cooked soybeans in a beanpot or 2-quart baking dish.

Mix remaining ingredients and stir into soybeans. Cover and bake 3
hours. Remove cover during last hour of baking to reduce liquid and
brown the top.


                               Meat loaf

_6 servings 1 slice each, about 1¼ inches thick_

 Ground beef                                1½ pounds
 Egg                                        1
 Milk                                       ½ cup
 Onion, finely chopped                      ½ cup
 Breadcrumbs, fine dry                      ⅓ cup
 Salt                                       1 teaspoon
 Pepper                                     ¼ teaspoon
 Sage                                       ¼ teaspoon

_Preheat oven to 350°F. (moderate)._ Mix all ingredients thoroughly.
Press into a 9- by 5- by 3-inch loaf pan. Bake 1½ hours.

Remove from oven; drain off excess fat.


                           Beef shish kebabs

_6 servings_

 Boneless sirloin steak                     2 pounds
 Oil                                        ¼ cup
 Lemon juice                                3 tablespoons
 Dry white wine                             ¼ cup
 Garlic powder                              ⅛ teaspoon
 Thyme                                      ⅛ teaspoon
 Salt                                       1 teaspoon
 Green peppers, cut in eighths              3
 Boiling water                              3 cups
 Mushroom caps                              24
 Pearl onions, whole, cooked                24
 Tomato sauce                               8-ounce can
 Brown sugar                                1 tablespoon
 Hot pepper sauce                           ⅛ teaspoon

_The day before:_

Cut meat into cubes. Place in bowl.

Mix oil, lemon juice, wine, garlic powder, thyme, and salt. Pour oil
mixture over meat. Let stand in refrigerator for 24 hours.

_The day of serving:_

Drain meat; save liquid.

Cook green pepper pieces in 1 cup boiling water for 5 minutes or until
almost tender. Drain.

Pour 2 cups boiling water over mushrooms. Cover. Let stand 5 minutes.
Drain.

Alternate meat cubes, onions, mushrooms, and green pepper pieces on
skewers.

Mix tomato sauce, brown sugar, and hot pepper sauce with remaining
liquid from meat. Brush meat and vegetables with tomato sauce mixture.

Broil, turning as needed, until meat is of desired doneness.

Heat remaining tomato mixture. Serve over meat and vegetables.


                             Brunswick stew

_6 servings, 1½ cups each_

 Chicken, whole or cut-up                   3 pounds
 Salt                                       1½ teaspoons
 Water                                      3 cups
 Potatoes, diced                            1 cup
 Frozen lima beans                          1¾ cups
 Tomatoes                                   16-ounce can
 Onions, chopped                            ⅔ cup
 Corn, frozen                               1¾ cups
 Salt                                       ½ teaspoon
 Pepper                                     ⅛ teaspoon
 Poultry seasoning                          ⅛ teaspoon
 Water                                      ¼ cup
 Flour                                      2 tablespoons

Simmer chicken in salted water until tender. Drain, save broth. Separate
the meat from the skin and bones and cut meat into pieces as desired.

Skim fat from broth. The fat can be skimmed more easily if the broth is
chilled enough to solidify the fat.

Add potatoes to broth and simmer 5 minutes.

Add lima beans, tomatoes, and onions. Simmer 7 minutes.

Add chicken, corn, and seasonings. Cook 3 minutes longer.

Mix ¼ cup water with flour until smooth. Add to stew and heat just long
enough to thicken, stirring as needed.


                             Eggs benedict

_6 servings_

 Canadian bacon                             6 slices, about 2 ounces each
 Oil or fat, melted                         1 tablespoon
 English muffins, cut in half               3
 Butter or margarine                        1 tablespoon
 Eggs                                       6
 Salt                                       ½ teaspoon
 Boiling water                              4 cups or more
 Mock hollandaise sauce (p. 18)             1 recipe

Fry bacon in fat in frypan. Keep warm.

Spread English muffin halves with butter or margarine. Toast under
broiler.

Break eggs into saucer, one at a time. Slip each egg gently into boiling
salted water. Water should cover eggs. Reheat to simmering. Simmer,
covered, until eggs are of desired doneness, about 3 minutes for medium.

Top each muffin half with slice of bacon; then with poached egg. Serve
with mock hollandaise sauce over top of egg.


                               Beef stew

_6 servings, 1½ cups each_

 Boneless stew beef, 1-inch cubes           1½ pounds
 Fat or oil                                 2 tablespoons
 Water                                      3 cups
 Bay leaf                                   1
 Potatoes, quartered                        3 cups
 Carrots, cut in chunks                     1½ cups
 Onions                                     6 small
 Salt                                       2 teaspoons
 Pepper                                     ¼ teaspoon
 Flour                                      ¼ cup
 Water                                      ⅓ cup

Brown meat on all sides in fat in a large, heavy saucepan. Add 3 cups
water and bay leaf. Cover tightly. Simmer about 2 hours or until meat is
tender.

Add vegetables and seasonings and continue cooking, covered, about 25
minutes or until vegetables are tender. Remove bay leaf.

Stir flour into ⅓ cup water until smooth.

Stir flour mixture gently into stew; continue stirring only as needed to
prevent sticking until stew thickens.


                           Curried pork chops

_6 servings, 1 chop each_

 Pork chops, loin                           6
 Flour                                      ¼ cup
 Oil or fat, melted                         1 tablespoon
 Mushrooms, sliced, drained                 8-ounce can
 Onion, finely chopped                      ⅓ cup
 Butter or margarine                        2 tablespoons
 Flour                                      2 tablespoons
 Salt                                       1½ teaspoons
 Curry powder                               1 teaspoon
 Milk                                       1½ cups

_Preheat oven to 350°F. (moderate)._

Coat chops with ¼ cup flour. Brown chops on both sides in fat.

Place chops in baking pan. Cover chops with mushrooms.

Cook onion in butter or margarine until tender. Stir in 2 tablespoons
flour, salt, and curry powder. Gradually stir in milk. Cook, stirring
constantly, until thickened.

Pour milk mixture over chops. Cover pan. Bake 1 hour or until chops are
tender.


                                Lasagna

_9 servings, 1 cup each_

 Ground beef                                ¾ pound
 Garlic cloves, finely chopped              2
 Onion, chopped                             ½ cup
 Salt                                       1½ teaspoons
 Red pepper, crushed, dried                 ⅛ teaspoon
 Oregano                                    1 teaspoon
 Parsley, dried                             1 tablespoon
 Tomato paste                               6-ounce can
 Tomato sauce                               8-ounce can
 Hot water                                  ¾ cup
 Lasagna noodles                            6
 Egg, beaten                                1
 Ricotta cheese                             12 ounces
 Mozzarella cheese, thinly sliced           4 ounces
 Parmesan cheese, grated                    ¼ cup

Crumble ground beef into large frypan. Cook over moderate heat, stirring
as needed, until beef is lightly browned. Add garlic and onion; cook
until onion becomes tender. Stir in seasonings, tomato paste, tomato
sauce, and water.

Cook lasagna noodles until tender, using directions on package.

Mix egg with Ricotta cheese.

_Preheat oven to 350°F. (moderate)._

In a 7- by 12- by 2-inch baking dish, spread layers of one-fourth of
tomato-meat sauce, then three noodles, and another one-fourth of
tomato-meat sauce. Top with half of each kind of cheese. Add another
one-fourth of the tomato-meat sauce; then the remaining Ricotta mixture
and Mozzarella cheese. Spread with remaining noodles and sauce. Top with
remaining Parmesan cheese.

Bake, uncovered, 30 minutes. Cool 10 minutes before serving.

NOTE: Lasagna freezes well either before or after baking. Thaw in
refrigerator. Leftover lasagna can also be stored in the refrigerator
for a day or two, and tastes just as good reheated as when freshly
baked.


                                Moussaka
                     (lamb and eggplant casserole)

_6 servings, 1 cup each_

 Eggplant, pared, sliced                    1 small (about 1 pound)
 Salt                                       ½ teaspoon
 Flour, unsifted                            ½ cup
 Fat or oil                                 ¼ cup
 Onion, finely chopped                      ½ cup
 Ground lamb                                1½ pounds
 Dry red wine                               ¼ cup
 Tomato sauce                               ½ cup
 Parsley, chopped                           1 tablespoon
 Thyme                                      ½ teaspoon
 Pepper                                     ⅛ teaspoon
 Salt                                       1 teaspoon
 Breadcrumbs, fine dry                      ½ cup
 Tomatoes, peeled, sliced                   2
 Yogurt                                     8-ounce container
 Egg yolks, beaten                          2
 Parmesan cheese, grated                    ¼ cup

Sprinkle eggplant slices with ½ teaspoon salt. Let stand 1 hour.

_Preheat oven to 375°F. (moderate). Grease 3-quart casserole._

Dry eggplant with paper towel. Coat with half of the flour. Brown
lightly in fat.

Cook onion and lamb until lamb is lightly browned. Drain off excess fat.

Mix wine, tomato sauce, parsley, thyme, pepper, and 1 teaspoon salt.
Pour over meat mixture. Cook over low heat for 15 minutes.

Sprinkle half of the breadcrumbs in bottom of casserole. Arrange
eggplant slices in layer on breadcrumbs. Spread meat mixture over
eggplant slices. Place tomato slices on top of meat.

Beat yogurt, egg yolks, and remaining flour together. Pour over tomato
slices. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Top with remaining bread crumbs.
Bake 45 minutes.


                      Braised beef and vegetables

_6 servings, about 3½ ounces meat and 1 cup vegetable each_

 Beef chuck, boneless, ½-inch thick         2 pounds
 Flour                                      ¼ cup
 Salt                                       1 teaspoon
 Pepper                                     ⅛ teaspoon
 Fat or oil                                 2 tablespoons
 Water                                      ½ cup
 Onions                                     6 small
 Carrots, cut into 2- or 3-inch pieces      6 medium
 Celery, cut into 1-inch pieces             3 stalks
 Potatoes, quartered                        6 small

_Preheat oven to 350°F. (moderate)._ Cut meat into six serving pieces.
Mix flour and seasonings; coat meat with mixture.

Heat fat in large frypan. Brown meat on both sides, turning once. Place
browned meat in large baking pan. Add water, onions, carrots, and
celery. Cover and bake 1 hour.

Add potatoes, cover, and bake 45 minutes longer or until vegetables are
tender. Remove meat and vegetables from liquid before serving. Make
gravy with liquid, if desired.


                              Sauerbraten

_12 servings, 3 ounces each_

 Onions, sliced                             2 cups
 Lemon juice                                ¼ cup
 Vinegar                                    1½ cups
 Sugar                                      1 tablespoon
 Cloves, whole                              12
 Bay leaves                                 4
 Pepper                                     ⅛ teaspoon
 Salt                                       2 teaspoons
 Beef rump roast, boneless                  About 3½ pounds
 Fat or oil                                 2 tablespoons
 Cooking liquid and water                   1½ cups
 Cold water                                 ½ cup
 Gingersnaps, crushed                       ½ cup

_Two days before:_

Mix onions, lemon juice, vinegar, sugar, cloves, bay leaves, pepper, and
salt. Place roast in bowl. Pour onion mixture over roast. Let stand in
refrigerator for 48 hours. Turn roast over in bowl halfway through
standing period.

_The day of serving:_

Remove roast from onion mixture; drain.

Brown meat in fat in heavy pan. Add onion mixture. Simmer until tender,
about 2½ hours. Remove meat; strain cooking liquid.

Heat cooking liquid and water to boiling.

Mix cold water and gingersnaps. Stir into boiling liquid. Cook, stirring
constantly, until thickened.

Slice roast into thin slices. Serve with gingersnap gravy.


                            Quiche Lorraine

_6 servings_

 Bacon                                      8 ounces
 Pastry shell, unbaked                      9-inch
 Swiss cheese, natural, coarsely shredded   1½ cups (7 ounces)
 Salt                                       ¾ teaspoon
 Pepper                                     ¼ teaspoon
 Cayenne                                    Dash
 Nutmeg                                     Dash
 Eggs                                       4
 Half-and-half                              1½ cups

_Preheat oven to 375°F. (moderate)._

Cut bacon into pieces and fry until brown and very crisp. Drain well.
Crumble bacon into pastry shell. Sprinkle cheese over the bacon. Mix
seasonings and sprinkle over cheese.

Beat eggs and half-and-half together. Pour over cheese and bacon.

Bake 45 minutes or until lightly browned and a knife inserted into the
center comes out clean.


                           Hamburger Parmesan

_6 servings, 1 patty each_

 Ground beef round                          1½ pounds
 Salt                                       ½ teaspoon
 Pepper                                     ⅛ teaspoon
 Flour, unsifted                            ¼ cup
 Eggs, beaten                               2
 Breadcrumbs, fine dry                      1 cup
 Fat or oil                                 3 tablespoons
 Mozzarella cheese                          6 slices
 Mushroom pieces, drained                   4-ounce can
 Spaghetti sauce                            15-ounce can
 Parmesan cheese                            3 tablespoons

_Preheat oven to 400°F. (hot)._

Gently mix ground beef with salt and pepper. Shape into six patties
about ½ inch thick. Coat each patty with flour; dip into eggs. Coat with
breadcrumbs. Brown patties in fat.

Arrange patties in single layer in baking pan, about 13 by 9 by 2
inches. Top each patty with a slice of Mozzarella cheese. Place mushroom
pieces on top of cheese-covered patties. Top with spaghetti sauce.
Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese.

Bake 25 minutes or until sauce is bubbly and cheese melted.




                               Vegetables


                              Corn pudding

_6 servings, about ⅔ cup each_

 Frozen corn, whole kernel                  3½ cups
 Milk                                       1 cup
 Eggs, slightly beaten                      3
 Salt                                       1 teaspoon
 Pepper                                     ⅛ teaspoon
 Butter or margarine, melted                2 tablespoons
 Sugar                                      3 tablespoons

_Preheat oven to 325°F. (slow). Grease 1½-quart casserole._

Cook corn according to package directions. Drain. Scald milk.

Mix remaining ingredients together. Slowly add hot milk to egg mixture.
Add corn. Pour into casserole.

Bake 30 minutes or until set.

NOTE: Instead of frozen corn, use two 17-ounce cans whole-kernel corn,
heated until boiling and drained.


                         Cabbage cooked in milk

_6 servings, ½ cup each_

 Cabbage, shredded                          1 quart
 Milk                                       1½ cups
 Flour                                      2 tablespoons
 Butter or margarine, melted                2 tablespoons
 Salt                                       1 teaspoon
 Pepper                                     Dash

Add cabbage to milk and simmer for 2 minutes.

Mix the flour and fat and add a little of the hot milk. Stir into
cabbage and cook for 3 or 4 minutes until thickened, stirring
constantly.

Season with salt and pepper.


                       Eggplant-tomato casserole

_6 servings, ¾ cup each_

 Onion, chopped                             1 large
 Eggplants, peeled and diced                2 small
 Butter or margarine                        ¼ cup
 Tomatoes, drained                          28-ounce can
 Salt                                       1 teaspoon
 Pepper                                     ⅛ teaspoon
 Corn flake crumbs                          ¼ cup

_Preheat oven to 350°F. (moderate)._

Cook onion and eggplant in fat until golden brown. Add tomatoes, salt,
and pepper. Mix thoroughly. Pour into casserole and top with crumbs.

Bake 30 minutes.




                                 Sauces


                         Mock hollandaise sauce

_6 servings, 2 tablespoons each_

 Cream cheese, softened                     3-ounce package
 Egg, beaten                                1
 Lemon juice                                2 tablespoons
 Milk                                       2 tablespoons
 Salt                                       ⅛ teaspoon

Beat cream cheese and egg together until smooth. Add lemon juice, milk,
and salt. Mix well.

Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until sauce is thick and
fluffy.




                                 Salads


                        Jellied vegetable salad

_6 servings, ½ cup each_

 Lemon-flavored gelatin                     3-ounce package
 Unflavored gelatin                         1 teaspoon
 Boiling water                              1 cup
 Cold water                                 1 cup
 Onion, finely chopped                      1 teaspoon
 Salt                                       ½ teaspoon
 Green pepper, chopped                      ¼ cup
 Carrots, shredded                          ¼ cup
 Celery, diced                              ¼ cup
 Radishes, thinly sliced                    ¼ cup
 Salad greens                               6 leaves

Mix flavored and unflavored gelatin. Dissolve in boiling water. Add cold
water, onion, and salt.

Chill in refrigerator until mixture begins to thicken.

Gently stir in green pepper, carrots, celery, and radishes. Pour into a
1-quart mold or six individual molds.

Chill until set. Unmold on salad greens.


                         Luncheon chef’s salad

_6 servings, about 3 cups each without dressing_

 Head lettuce                               1 medium
 Radishes, thinly sliced                    8
 Green onions, thinly sliced                4
 Tomatoes, cut in eighths                   3 large
 Ham, cooked, diced                         2 cups
 Swiss cheese, coarsely shredded            1½ cups (7 ounces)
 Croutons                                   1⅓ cups
 Salad dressing                             As desired

Wash and drain lettuce. Reserve outer leaves; tear remaining lettuce
into bite-size pieces. Toss lettuce pieces lightly with radishes and
onions.

Line individual salad bowls with lettuce leaves. For each salad use 2
cups lettuce mixture and top with four tomato wedges, ⅓ cup ham, and ¼
cup cheese. Top with croutons.

Serve with salad dressing of your choice.


                      Jellied citrus-avocado salad

_6 servings, ¾ cup each_

 Lemon-flavored gelatin                     3-ounce package
 Boiling water                              1½ cups
 Grapefruit juice                           ½ cup
 Salt                                       ¼ teaspoon
 Grapefruit sections, diced                 ½ cup
 Orange sections, diced                     ½ cup
 Avocado, diced                             1½ cups
 Salad greens                               6 leaves

Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Add grapefruit juice and salt.

Chill until mixture begins to thicken; add fruits. Pour into individual
molds.

Chill until set. Unmold on salad greens.




                                 Breads


                              White bread

_2 loaves, 18 slices each_

 Flour, unsifted                            About 5½ cups
 Sugar                                      3 tablespoons
 Salt                                       2 teaspoons
 Yeast, active dry                          2 packages
 Milk                                       2 cups
 Shortening                                 ¼ cup
 Shortening, melted, or oil                 1 tablespoon

Mix 2 cups of flour with sugar, salt, and yeast. Heat milk and ¼ cup
shortening together until very warm (120°F. to 130°F.). Shortening does
not need to melt.

Gradually stir milk mixture into flour mixture. Add 1 more cup flour.
Beat 2 minutes at high speed on electric mixer. Mix in enough of the
remaining flour to make a soft dough that leaves the side of the bowl.

Knead on a lightly floured surface until dough is smooth and elastic,
about 10 minutes.

Cover with plastic wrap, then a clean towel. Let rest 20 minutes.

_Grease two loaf pans, 9- by 5- by 3 inches._ Divide dough in half.
Shape into loaves. Place in loaf pans. Brush tops with 1 tablespoon fat.

Cover with plastic wrap. Refrigerate 2 to 24 hours.

Remove from refrigerator. Puncture gently any air bubbles on surface
with toothpick or cake tester. Let rest 10 minutes before baking.

_Preheat oven to 375°F. (moderate)._ Bake 40 minutes or until done.

Remove bread from pans. Cool on racks.


                              Squash bread

_1 loaf, 18 slices_

 Flour, unsifted                            1½ cups
 Cinnamon                                   2 teaspoons
 Baking powder                              1 teaspoon
 Baking soda                                ½ teaspoon
 Salt                                       ¼ teaspoon
 Eggs                                       2
 Sugar                                      ¾ cup
 Oil                                        ½ cup
 Vanilla                                    2 teaspoons
 Zucchini or yellow summer squash,          1⅓ cups
     coarsely shredded, lightly packed

_Preheat oven to 350°F. (moderate). Grease a 9- by 5- by 3-inch loaf
pan._

Mix dry ingredients, except sugar, thoroughly.

Beat eggs until frothy. Add sugar, oil, and vanilla. Beat until lemon
colored, about 3 minutes. Stir in squash. Add dry ingredients. Mix just
until dry ingredients are moistened.

Pour into loaf pan. Bake 40 minutes or until toothpick inserted in
center of loaf comes out clean.

Cool on rack. Remove from pan after 10 minutes.


                                Muffins

_12 medium-size muffins_

 Flour, unsifted                            2 cups
 Baking powder                              1 tablespoon
 Sugar                                      ⅓ cup
 Salt                                       1 teaspoon
 Egg, slightly beaten                       1
 Milk                                       1 cup
 Shortening, melted, or oil                 ⅓ cup

_Preheat oven to 400°F. (hot). Grease muffin tins._

Mix flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt thoroughly.

Mix egg and milk; add fat. Pour milk mixture into flour mixture. Stir
until dry ingredients are barely moistened. Do not overmix. Batter will
be lumpy.

Fill muffin tins half full of batter. Bake 20 to 25 minutes until
lightly browned.


                               Cornbread

_6 servings, 4 by 2½ inches each_

 Yellow cornmeal                            1 cup
 Flour, unsifted                            1 cup
 Baking powder                              4 teaspoons
 Sugar                                      ¼ cup
 Salt                                       ½ teaspoon
 Milk                                       1 cup
 Egg, beaten                                1
 Shortening, melted or oil                  2 tablespoons

_Preheat oven to 400°F. (hot). Grease an 8- by 8- by 2-inch baking pan._

Mix dry ingredients thoroughly.

Mix milk and egg; stir in fat.

Add liquid to dry ingredients; stir only enough to mix.

Pour batter into pan. Bake 20 to 25 minutes, or until lightly browned.


                              Banana bread

_1 loaf, 18 slices_

 Flour, unsifted                            1¾ cups
 Baking powder                              1 tablespoon
 Salt                                       ½ teaspoon
 Sugar                                      ¾ cup
 Shortening                                 ½ cup
 Eggs                                       2
 Bananas, mashed                            1 cup

_Preheat oven to 350°F. (moderate). Grease 9- by 5- by 3-inch loaf pan._

Mix flour, baking powder, and salt thoroughly.

Mix sugar, fat, and eggs together until light and fluffy. Stir in
bananas. Add dry ingredients and stir just until smooth.

Pour into pan. Bake until firmly set when lightly touched in center, 50
to 60 minutes. (Bread may crack across top.)

Cool on rack. Remove from pan after 10 minutes.




                                Desserts


                           Sour cream cookies

_4 dozen cookies_

 Butter or margarine, softened              ½ cup
 Sugar                                      1 cup
 Eggs, beaten                               2
 Vanilla                                    1 teaspoon
 Flour, unsifted                            1¾ cups
 Salt                                       ½ teaspoon
 Baking soda                                ¼ teaspoon
 Nutmeg                                     ½ teaspoon
 Sour cream                                 ½ cup
 Nuts, chopped                              1 cup

_Preheat oven to 375°F. (moderate). Grease baking sheets._

Beat fat and sugar together until creamy. Beat in eggs and vanilla.

Stir flour, salt, baking soda, and nutmeg together. Mix flour mixture,
sour cream, and nuts with fat mixture.

Drop dough from a teaspoon onto baking sheets; space cookies about 2
inches apart.

Bake 10 to 12 minutes, or until lightly browned around the edges.


                           Baked pastry shell

_8- or 9-inch pastry shell, 6 to 8 servings_

 Flour, unsifted                            1 cup
 Salt                                       ½ teaspoon
 Shortening or lard                         ⅓ cup
 Cold water                                 About 2 tablespoons

_Preheat oven to 450°F. (very hot)._

Mix flour and salt thoroughly. Mix in fat only until mixture is crumbly.
A pastry blender, two table knives, or a fork may be used for mixing.
Add a little water at a time while mixing lightly. Dough should be just
moist enough to cling together when pressed.

For easier handling, cover dough tightly and let stand a few minutes.

Shape dough into a ball. Roll out on a lightly floured surface until the
dough is at least an inch wider all around than the piepan.

Fold dough in half for easier lifting and centering in piepan.

Smooth pastry into place, lifting edges as necessary to eliminate air
bubbles.

Trim off irregular edges leaving about one-half inch beyond edge of pan;
fold under to edge of pan. Shape edge into plain or fancy rim, as
desired. Prick bottom and sides well with a fork before baking.

Bake 12 to 15 minutes until golden brown. Cool before filling.


                              _VARIATIONS_

_Pastry shell filled before baking._—Do not prick the pastry. Fill and
bake as directed in pie filling recipe.

_Pastry for two-crust pie._—Double the recipe for baked pastry shell.
Form dough into two balls, one slightly larger than the other. Roll out
larger ball and fit into piepan. Roll remaining dough for top crust;
make small slits to let steam escape during baking. Put filling into
pastry-lined pan and top with second crust. Fold edges of pastry under
and press together firmly to seal. Bake as directed in pie recipe.


                               Apple pie

_9-inch pie, 6 to 8 servings_

 Pastry for two-crust pie (p. 21)           1
 Sugar                                      ¾ cup
 Cornstarch                                 1 tablespoon
 Cinnamon                                   ½ teaspoon
 Apples, tart, pared, sliced                6 cups

_Preheat oven to 400°F. (hot)._

Prepare pastry.

Mix dry ingredients lightly with apples in a bowl. Put filling into
pastry-lined 9-inch pan. Top with second crust. Fold edges of pastry
under and press together firmly to seal.

Bake 50 to 60 minutes or until filling is bubbly and crust is lightly
browned.


                            Apple turnovers

_6 turnovers_


                                _Pastry_

 Flour, unsifted                            1½ cups
 Salt                                       ¾ teaspoon
 Shortening                                 ½ cup
 Cold water                                 About 3 tablespoons
 Butter or margarine                        2 tablespoons


                               _Filling_

 Apples, tart, pared, sliced                1½ cups
 Sugar                                      ¼ cup
 Salt                                       ⅛ teaspoon
 Cinnamon                                   ¼ teaspoon
 Nutmeg                                     ⅛ teaspoon

Mix flour and salt thoroughly. Mix in shortening only until mixture is
crumbly. A pastry blender, two table knives, or a fork may be used for
mixing.

Add water, a little at a time, mixing lightly. Dough should be just
moist enough to cling together when pressed. Shape dough into a ball.

Roll out on a lightly floured surface until dough is about 12 by 12
inches. Dot with butter or margarine.

Fold pastry so that two sides meet in center. Press folded pastry with
fingers. Fold ends to center and press with fingers.

Wrap in waxed paper and chill.

Divide pastry into six balls. Roll each ball out on a lightly floured
surface to make a 6-inch square.

_Preheat oven to 400°F. (hot)._

Place about ¼ cup apples onto half of each pastry square about ½ inch
from edges so that when top is folded over the turnover will be
triangular.

Mix sugar, salt, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Sprinkle apples with sugar
mixture.

Moisten edges of pastry squares. Fold pastry diagonally over apple
mixture. Seal edges with a fork. Prick tops of turnovers.

Bake until lightly browned, about 25 to 30 minutes.


                              Gingerbread

_9 servings_

 Shortening                                 ½ cup
 Brown sugar, packed                        ⅓ cup
 Egg                                        1
 Light molasses                             ½ cup
 Flour, unsifted                            1½ cups
 Salt                                       ½ teaspoon
 Baking soda                                ¾ teaspoon
 Ginger                                     ½ teaspoon
 Cinnamon                                   ½ teaspoon
 Boiling water                              ½ cup

_Preheat oven to 350°F. (moderate). Grease an 8- by 8- by 2-inch baking
pan._

Beat shortening and sugar until creamy. Add egg and molasses; beat well.

Mix dry ingredients thoroughly. Add to molasses mixture alternately with
boiling water. Beat after each addition.

Pour batter into pan. Bake 35 to 40 minutes. Serve warm.


                               Cheesecake

_9-inch cake, 12 servings_

 Zwieback crumbs                            1 cup
 Butter or margarine, melted                2 tablespoons
 Sugar                                      2 tablespoons
 Cinnamon                                   ¼ teaspoon
 Cream cheese, softened                     16 ounces
 Sugar                                      ½ cup
 Flour                                      2 tablespoons
 Salt                                       ½ teaspoon
 Lemon rind, grated                         1 lemon
 Lemon juice                                1 lemon
 Egg yolks                                  5
 Sour cream                                 1 cup
 Vanilla                                    ½ teaspoon
 Egg whites                                 5

Mix crumbs, melted fat, sugar, and cinnamon. Line bottom of 9-inch
spring-form pan with ¾ cup crumbs, saving remaining crumbs for top.

_Preheat oven to 325°F. (slow)._

Beat cheese until soft. Mix in sugar, flour, and salt. Stir in lemon
rind and juice. Add yolks one at a time, beating after each addition.
Add sour cream and vanilla. Mix well.

Beat egg whites until stiff. Fold egg whites into cheese mixture.

Pour mixture into pan. Cover with remaining crumbs. Bake 1 hour or until
set.

Cool on cake rack. Refrigerate.


                            Sponge cake roll

_8 servings_

 Cake flour, unsifted                       1 cup
                     or
 All-purpose flour, unsifted                1 cup less 2 tablespoons
 Baking powder                              1 teaspoon
 Salt                                       ¼ teaspoon
 Eggs                                       3
 Sugar                                      1 cup
 Water                                      ⅓ cup
 Vanilla                                    1 teaspoon
 Confectioner’s sugar                       ¼ cup
 Filling                                    As desired

_Preheat oven to 375°F. (moderate). Line a 15- by 10- by 1-inch pan with
foil or heavy paper; grease._

Mix flour, baking powder, and salt thoroughly.

Beat eggs about 5 minutes until thick and lemon colored and heavy peaks
cling to lifted beater. Beat in sugar 1 tablespoon at a time. Slowly mix
in the water and vanilla.

Gently mix or fold in dry ingredients only until batter is smooth.

Pour into pan. Bake 12 to 15 minutes, just until center is firm when
lightly touched.

Place a sheet of foil or waxed paper on a rack; sprinkle with about
three-fourths of the confectioner’s sugar. Turn cake onto foil or paper.
Peel foil or paper from cake and quickly trim away any crusty edges.
Cool on rack.

Spread cake with a filling, as desired (See note). Starting with the
narrow edge, roll cake. Place seam down. Sift remaining confectioner’s
sugar over top.

NOTE: For the filling, use jelly or jam. Or use whipped dessert topping
or sweetened, flavored whipped cream alone or with fresh blueberries or
sliced, sweetened strawberries (well drained). Or fill a chilled roll
with slightly softened ice cream and place in freezer until used.


                          Yellow chiffon cake

_10-inch cake, 15 servings_

 Oil                                        ½ cup
 Egg yolks                                  4
 Water                                      ¾ cup
 Vanilla                                    1½ teaspoons
 Cake flour, unsifted                       2 cups
 Sugar                                      1½ cups
 Baking powder                              2½ teaspoons
 Salt                                       1 teaspoon
 Egg whites                                 4
 Cream of tartar                            ½ teaspoon

_Preheat oven to 350°F. (moderate)._

Place oil, unbeaten egg yolks, water, and vanilla in mixing bowl, and
mix well.

Mix dry ingredients thoroughly and add to liquid mixture. Beat until
smooth.

Pour egg whites into large mixing bowl. Add cream of tartar. Beat until
very stiff peaks are formed.

Fold egg yolk mixture gently into egg white mixture. Pour batter
immediately into an ungreased 10-inch tube pan.

Bake about 1¼ hours, or until top is springy to touch.

Invert cake in pan until cool. Serve plain or topped with a lemon or
chocolate glaze.

                         U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1979 O—292-694




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SELECTIONS FROM AUNT SAMMY'S RADIO
RECIPES AND USDA FAVORITES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
